Rental Advice + Condo's vs. Co-ops
http://eepurl.com/gySob
10/20/2011
http://gallery.mailchimp.com/f832646624bdbf8d1d0cd3146/images/the_dakota.jpg
 Renting in NYC: Be prepared Buying: Condo or Co-op? Rental Market- a snapshot: The past 6 months in downtown rentals has been absolutely crazy. I think everyone can benefit from learning just a bit about some of the things that happen when trying to find a place to live in Manhattan. Ive really dealt with almost every situation imaginable, and have had to solve all types of crazy problems. There are two main aspects of renting in NYC that are commonly misunderstood. Click this link to see a recent NYTimes article about record high prices in NYC rentals. http://www.nytimes.com/2011/10/16/realestate/rents-in-manhattan-rebound-to-record-highs.html?_r=3pagewanted=all%3Fsrc%3Dtpsmid=fb-share Pre-paying rent and/or giving extra security deposit. It is quite common for someone to assume that if theyre willing to pay the years rent upfront, or give substantial security deposit, that they can either bypass the crazy typical paperwork requirements or negotiate on price. In downtown NYC this is NOT the case. In fact, MOST landlords prefer only taking first months rent and 1-2 months security and have a tenant who is employed, low-key, good credit, single, and over 30. An individual who owns a rental building in NYC has a lot of risk, responsibility and obligation. Tenants living in NYC are more protected than almost anywhere in the world. I have dealt personally with landlords who have told me theyve been trying to evict a tenant in one of their buildings for over a year. In this particular case the landlord lost almost $80,000 worth of rent, legal fees, and lots of time and energy.. Depending on the location of the building, the landlord/owner and his/her ties with the judges who process evictions, evicting a tenant for non-payment can take up to TWO YEARS. Now, take into consideration how expensive rents are, imagine how much landlords pay in taxes, water bills, suage,heat and other logistics and it should make a lot more sense to you what makes renting in NYC so crazy. Now, on top of all this, add on a MUCH higher demand than supply, lots of options, tons of real estate agents and a tax write off for a vacant unit. Pre-paid rent/ extra security is usuallysomething a landlord prefers not to deal with. Makes it more difficult for the landlord to evict someone for disturbances (they already paid) and a chance they could be a holdover tenant once the year is up. What month can I find the best deal to rent in NYC? Many people assume that the best months to find a deal in NYC is December-February. This is not necessarily true. Although it really depends on particularly what your looking for (i.e. most two bedrooms are only available in the summer because its common for college students to share), the best deals come up in the week before Thanksgiving, the week before Christmas and towards the end of March. Final Words All in all NYCs real estate market is hotter than ever. Considering that 40% of all condo purchases were all cash buyers, I think its safe to assume that people still believe in the future of NYC. With financing being very difficult to attain, many people who would consider buying are now renting. That, coupled with the large number of foreigners coming to NYC to live the dream, rents are now at RECORD highs. A diligent, hard working honest agent is now more needed than ever. If you ever have any questions about buying, selling, renting or investing, please dont hesitate to contact me. Im available via phone or email at any time. My best regards, Dan Bamberger Licensed Salesperson Citi Habitats 214 Sullivan St NY, NY 10036 Cell-516-578-4564 Office-212-253-2525 Fax- 917-262-77376 In a snapshot: Condos (The Atelier on 42nd st is featured above) -No board interview required. Condo has first right of refusal -Usually 80% financing is allowed, but at times can be up to 90% -Closings normally take place within 1-2 months of contract signing -Renovations are allowed; all you have to do is notify the board -Common charges and taxes are separate. Your monthly common charges depend on the sq ft of the unit. -Subletting is allowed but the potential subletter may incur condo board fees -Can sell any time seller chooses to. Condo board has first right of refusal (first option to buy at listing price) In a snapshot: Co-ops (The infamous Dakota is featured above| -Board package submitted to board membersof co-op with full financial disclosure andreferences required. After financials are inorder, applicants must interview in personwith the co-op board. Board can approve orreject applications without providing reason -80% financing is usually the starting point, butlarger down payments are not uncommon -Closings normally take3 - 4 months from contract signing -Renovations are allowed withboard approval. Any changes mustfollow regulations and procedures ofthe building -Monthly charges include theMaintenance fee (covers heat, hot water,staff salaries, real estate taxes, buildingsunderlying mortgage, etc) is based on sharesowned in the co-op. Taxes are included in the Maintenance. -Subletting dependson buildings sublet policy, almostalways requires board approval. Oftenboards limit the length of time allowed. Pieda-tierre may be permitted, depending on thebuildings policy. -Selling a co-op is more difficult than a condo. The building may impose a selling tax and potentialbuyers are subject to same approval process forward to a friend Copyright 2011 Dan Bamberger, All rights reserved. unsubscribe from this list | update subscription preferences '
