Don't sell New York short
http://eepurl.com/rxVLT
11/08/2012
http://gallery.mailchimp.com/f832646624bdbf8d1d0cd3146/images/1_prem.jpg
 Global Warming and Hurricanes: What will happen to NYC real estate? When theres fear in the streets, its time to buy. This paraphrased quote from Baron Nathan Rothschild may be from the 1800s, but it applies just as well today. NYC has been through a lot over the past few weeks. Weve just made it through one of the worst hurricanes in the citys history and the loss of life and property is truly horrific. While the 9/11 attacks may have taken a greater toll in human life, the effect of Hurricane Sandy on the housing market may be comparable to the effect of the 9/11 attacks. As these charts illustrate, in the two months after 9/11, prices in lower Manhattan dropped by 10%. Those smart enough to hold onto their apartments -- as well as those who knew it was the perfect time to buy -- reaped huge rewards. A long-term view of lower Manhattan prices reflects a consistent post-disaster dip in prices over the decades: Price/Sq. Foot in lower Manhattan Long Term Effects of Devastating Events (Averages taken only from purchase prices between $300k and $3 million) Today, were seeing the same pricing trends in parts of Chelsea, Battery Park City and the Financial District. Significantly, all are in an area designated as Zone A, otherwise known as the mandatory evacuation zone in the case of a potential flooding threat. Battery Park City also happens to be one of the most attractive underpriced markets in all of Manhattan -- including lower Manhattan. Its got it all: Accessible public transportation, gorgeous parks and scenic water views where the Hudson meets the Upper Bay. Battery Park City vs. Upper East SideEast of 3rd Ave between 60th and 96thStreets Price Per Square Foot (Comparison of Condo unitsAverage of Closed Sales in the Past 3 Months) On average, living in Battery Park City is 16% cheaper than, say, on 84th Street and 1st Avenue. Both areas are family friendly; Battery Park City is actually more convenient for most people, considering its proximity to the subways. And I havent even mentioned the fact that the West Side of the river is substantially more developed than the East Side. Battery Park City is the place to buy. So why is this area underpriced? Perhaps because people are worried about the potential for flooding, especially in light of rising sea levels. Lingering fear from the World Trade Center attacks may also be an issue. Either way, Battery Park City represents a huge missed opportunity. Speaking of rising sea levels, you can argue about causality for hours, but its clear that climate change is in effect and lower Manhattan is at a huge risk for these threats. Its scary, truebut consider that NYC wouldnt be the first major city with areas below or at sea level. Ever heard of Venice? But wait dont invest in a gondola just yet. Malcolm Bowman, oceanography professor at Stony Brook University, said it would take up to 200 years for NYC water levels to get to Venice level. As far as imminent concerns go, many New Yorkers fear storm flooding even more and theyre probably right. Just like we experienced in Hurricane Sandy, storms with high winds and heavy rains just love to dump water from the river onto the shore. But again, this isnt the first time a major metropolis has dealt with this issue. Ever heard of London? Take a look at the Thames Barrier; its the second largest movable flood barrier in the world, and its located just downstream of Central London. During high tides, these barriers snap shut -- preventing flooding like we witnessed during Hurricane Sandy. These represent just two of many technologies currently employed to protect major urban centers around the world. Can you imagine what would happen to real estate prices in Battery Park City if the fear of flooding disappeared? After youve let that soak in for a minute, consider that the Bloomberg administration has been well aware of these threats for years. In fact, in May 2010 long before both Hurricanes Irene and Sandy -- the New York Academy of Sciences published a 62 page report titled, Climate Change Adaption in NYC: Building a Risk Management Response. Using multiple, state-of-the-art digital models, Researchers from Columbia University, New York City College of Technology, Stony Brook Universitys School of Marine and Atmospheric Sciences, and the NASA Goddard Institute for Space Studies concluded that, inevitably, climate change will bring warmer temperatures to NYC. But dont get too excited; before you start dreaming of picnicking in Hudson River Park in January, consider that the report also concluded that these rising temperatures will likely be accompanied by longer, more intense heat waves; more precipitation and its BFF, flooding; more severe droughts; and that, toward the end of the 21st century, rising sea levels are likely to increase the flooding and damage already caused by coastal storms. As a significant portion of NYC lies less than three feet above sea level, an increased risk of flood damage from both coastal surges and inland rainfall is especially concerning. Pour yourself a cocktail and take a deep, calming breath because its not all bad news. Heres the good part: The NYAS report concluded that, luckily, New York City has the good fortune to include within its boundaries some of the worlds leading practitioners of climate science. Such a local resource is extremely valuable, especially when theyre working in coordination with city and state officials to prepare the citys infrastructure and response plans. Best of all, this partnership has been going on for several years already; given the successful solutions already in place in other major cities, its just a matter of time before NYC catches up. After all, this is hardly the first time NYC has faced adversity and triumphed. From the fiscal crisis of the 1970s, narrowly averted by Felix Rohatyn, to 1987s Black Monday, to the dramatic events of the past 11 years, the city will survive and prosper. So whats the lesson to be gained? That ones easy: Dont bet against NYC. History has proven that you wont win. Questions about buying, selling, renting or investing? Please dont hesitate to contact me. Im available via phone or email any time. My best regards, Dan Bamberger Citi Habitats 250 Park Ave South NY, NY 10003 Cell-917-903-7237 Office-212-685-7300 Fax- 917-262-7376 Sale Deal of the Month! 24 5th Ave #429 One bed/One bath $750,000/1,000 sq feet 24 Fifth Avenue is a grand building with Premier Location, at the corner of 9th street and Fifth Avenue in the Heart of Greenwich Village. Originally it was built in 1926 by Emery Roth as the Fifth Avenue Hotel. The building offers 24hr concierge, laundry room, gym,and bike storage. The spectacular lobby has recently been renovated to the original splendor taking one back to its magnificent past. This is an oversized prewar one bedroom with a gracious entry way leading to a substantial living room with four deep closets. Ultra-quiet rear apartment also features high ceilings, hardwood floors, renovated kitchen with stainless steel appliances and dishwasher, full time doorman, new laundry facility, steps from Washington Square Park, New York University,and all imaginable retail and cafes, clubs, and transportation. The building has newly restored lobby and hallways, private gym (for annual fee), large laundry room, storage and bike room. Pet-friendly and liberal sublet policy for owners. forward to a friend Copyright 2012 Dan Bamberger, All rights reserved. unsubscribe from this list | update subscription preferences '
