Lucky Number 8
http://eepurl.com/p6Le1
10/01/2012
http://gallery.mailchimp.com/f832646624bdbf8d1d0cd3146/images/charlesstreet.jpg
 Real Estate Numerology: Do Lucky Numbers Equal Sales? Ever wonder why that two-bedroom on the 8thfloor costs so much more than that almost-identical apartment on the 10thfloor? After all, the views get better the further up you go, right? To get an answer to this question, you may need to take a crash course in Feng Shui, a centuries-old Chinese practice that involves a complex blend of astrology, geography, psychology, mysticism, aesthetics and especially significant real-estate-wise -- numerology. Believe it or not, lucky and unlucky numbers influence apartment prices, even in NYC in the 21stcentury. Its especially relevant considering that, according to the 2010 census, one in every 10 Manhattanites is of Asian descent, and Chinese home purchases in the city have shot up over the past two years. Before you scoff, consider the results of a study of Chinese homebuyers: Of the more-than 2,100 sales studied, houses with addresses ending in numbers considered lucky -- three, six, eight or nine commanded an average premium of 4.8 %! On the other hand, houses with addresses ending in unlucky number four had lower sale prices. Here in Manhattan, these beliefs impact apartment sale prices. Take a look at this chart: Floor and Price/Square Foot in Manhattan From this data, we can conclude that: The asking price for 8thfloor apartments is 11% higher than apartments on the 7thfloor, 3.1% higher than 9thfloor apartments, and a whopping16% higherthan 10thfloor apartments. Current asking prices for 8thfloor apartments are almost identical to asking prices on the 11thand 12thfloors -- withonly a 1.2% difference in price. Over the last year, apartments on the 8thfloor and 9thfloor had virtually identical prices. However, buying an apartment on the 8thfloor cost 2.6% more than one on the 10thor 11thfloors. To put this in perspective, take two identical apartments -- one on the 8thfloor and one on the 11thfloor -- and pay $26,000 more per million dollars spent on the 8thfloor apartment. Thats a lot more money to be on a lower floor! So whats up with lucky number eight? For many homebuyers, numbers arent just a way to count theyre also imbued with meaning. In Feng Shui, numbers are potent symbols that possess certain powers, often based on the way they sound when spoken aloud. For instance, the number eight sounds like generate wealth, always a good thing. On the other hand, the number four sounds like the word for death, leading many homebuyers to avoid apartments with any association to the number four. So what does this mean for you as a seller? Walk-in closets? Check. Amazing views? Check. On the fourth floor? Deal breaker. This association is so strong that many buildings in China skip the 4thfloor entirely just like we do with the 13thfloor here in the U.S. Feng Shui isnt just limited to Chinese buyers, though; many other Asian cultures also embrace its principles, and since the mid-1900s, many Westerner homeowners, designers, architects and real estate brokers have adopted Feng Shui. Such beliefs are common to many cultures and religious groups and many have the potential to affect apartment sales. In Judaism, the number 18 carries great significance. This lucky number is associated with the Hebrew character chai, or life. For Christians, the number three represents the holy trinity, while 666 is considered unlucky or even evil. In Islam, the number five is sacred. Hindus who practice Vedic astrology use their birthdates and the lunar calendar to determine their lucky numbers. For others, a special day or event their wedding, engagement, birth of a loved one, first date becomes filled with importance. In NYC, new developments take this numbers game very seriously. Apartments are often numbered in such a way as to appeal to wealthy Chinese buyers. Depending on the type of building you live in and the demographics of the neighborhood, your apartments floor number and address can significantly affect the priceeven if it doesnt seem to be in the most logical way. So the question is: In a diverse city like NYC, do lucky or unlucky number associations affect apartment prices and sales? And the short answer is yes. The data speaks for itself. With such a large number of Asian buyers -- coupled with Western cultures widespread adoption of the lucky number 8 meme -- buyers are payingrealpremiums for apartments on the 8thfloor. In fact, five years of data collection in the Chinese homebuyer study shows that that homes with lucky numbers fetch up to a 10% premium on the price. Thats crucial information for any seller whos pricing an apartment! Whether lucky or unlucky, these superstitious aspectsfrom the floor an apartment is on to the numbers in its address, from the asking price to the closing date -- can make or break the deal, and have a significant impact on selling price. Questions about buying, selling, renting or investing? Please dont hesitate to contact me. Im available via phone or email any time. My best regards, Dan Bamberger Licensed Salesperson Citi Habitats 250 Park Ave South 5th Floor NY, NY 10003 Cell-917-903-7237 Office-212-685-7300 Fax- 917-262-7376 Sale Deal of the Month! One Bedroom on Charles St + W4th St $675,000/650 sq feet A charming, airy West Village one bedroom on Charles Street. Its hard to find a more wonderful location in one of the citys most desirable neighborhoods. This captivating home is full of sunshine and brimming with pre-war Village details including high ceilings, hardwood floors, transom windows and french doors. Best of all you can enjoy cooking in a large, windowed eat-in kitchen with plenty of counters and cabinet space. And, you also have a separate dining room that can easily substitute as a home office or a guest room. French doors open onto the living room which includes built in shelves and cabinets for extra storage. A north facing bedroom and a windowed bathroom complete this one-of-a-kind apartment. Just four flights up. 80 Charles has a terrific common roof deck, laundry room and bike storage. forward to a friend Copyright 2012 Dan Bamberger, All rights reserved. unsubscribe from this list | update subscription preferences '
