Celebrities don't always make the best neighbors
http://eepurl.com/oc9OX
08/06/2012
http://gallery.mailchimp.com/f832646624bdbf8d1d0cd3146/images/lvrmcharles.jpg
 Celebrities in Downtown NYC NYC is packed with celebrities, so much so that an apartment and building can gain great publicity -- not to mention free marketing -- when the press gets wind of a stars apartment hunt. This begs the question: Does celebrity status bring a premium price to an apartment? The answer: It depends. Often, developers offer discounts to celebrities so theyll buy in a building. The media attention creates a buzz around the building, leading to premiums on other units and speedier sales -- so developers can move onto their next project quickly. Some building owners even hire their very own PR team to manage the publicity! Especially in the trendy downtown condo market, celebrities can have a huge effect on the building. Case in point: 176 Perry Street, where luminaries like Nicole Kidman, Calvin Klein and Martha Stewart bought when this building on the Hudson first opened in 2000. A laundry list of famous names soon followed, and Perry Street became a household name. Top Celebrity Downtown Buildings However, the main reason celebrity buyers flock to downtown is the districts new condo development, which allows famous folk to avoid the scrutiny of the notoriously picky Uptown co-op boards, who may not crave the attention-baggage celebrities carry. Sting even disguised himself as a straight-laced banker type, wearing a Brooks Brothers a board interview. Against all odds, the board approved the musician -- yet he never lived in the apartment. After Katie Holmes and Tom Cruise famously untied the knot, the soon-to-be-ex Mrs. Cruise moved into the Chelsea Mercantile at 252 Seventh Avenue near 25th Street. Though this luxurious 1907 building has long been a celebrity magnet former and current residents include designer Marc Jacobs and singer Nick Jonas Katies post-divorce residency has spurred a flurry of interest and sales activity - due to publicity among potential residents who want to be Suris new neighbors. However, when it comes to celebrity influence on real estate appeal and price, not all celebrity cache is created equal: Think Michael Jackson vs. Lance Bass or Oprah Winfrey vs. Jessica Simpson. And celebrity buying generally has more impact than celebrity selling. Being able to say Justin Bieber is my neighbor carries a lot more value than being able to say I bought Justin Biebers old apartment. (Wondering why? Its simple: Celebrities often own many homes throughout their lifetimes, so any exclusivity value is greatly reduced, especially in NYC where the average resident moves about once every five years or so). Top Three Celebrity Real Estate Fails: 1. You might think that being, you know, the President of the United States and all would pretty much assure membership in any club you deigned to join. Not true in NYC; In 1979, Richard Nixon was famously rejected by the prestigious co-op at 19 E. 72nd Street. Just a few years after his early retirement, Nixon put a deposit down on the nine-room, Madison Avenue penthouse. The shareholders werent enthusiastic about the sale, however, and a few days later, the co-op board backtracked on their initial approval of the deal. This is more common than you might think; celebrities are often rejected from co-op boards for numerous reasons. In Nixons case, the board was aghast by the publicity and notoriety that followed the ex-president after Watergate especially the secret service, paparazzi and the public eye that would constantly be in and around the building, bothering the other residents. It just goes to show that in prestigious, high-end properties, certain celebrities can actually decrease apartment value. Most very wealthy people could care less about having a famous neighbor; in fact, theyre more interested in privacy, as enough people are hounding them on a daily basis. 2. Think celebrity sellers always command premium prices? Not always. Jennifer Aniston sold her two prewar condos at 299 W. 12th Street in the West Village for a $500,000 loss despite their stunning terrace views, which some describe as the citys most beautiful. Anistons case isnt a complete anomaly, though; celebrity sellers normally dont command premium, although the does publicity such sales attract often benefits other sellers in the building and surrounding areas. 3. Sometimes, a celebrity name associated with a property can even hinder or prevent a sale. Frank Sinatras 1960s apartment at 530 E. 72nd Street was on the market for almost an entire year and never sold! Why not? Usually celebrity apartments from that long ago still feature quirky, uber-customized layouts and require extensive renovations, as in the case of Sinatras penthouse. Finding the right buyer for such properties -- maybe a die-hard fan with a few bucks looking for a collection piece? poses a real challenge. So, we can see that celebrity names dont necessarily translate into premium selling prices. Unlike tangible amenities, such as a doorman or outdoor space, the celebrity buzz can help generate some publicity which can be great for marketing -- but thats about it. Plus, many celebrity sellers wont allow their real estate agent to publicize their names -- and you cant really blame them. Really, who would want curious fans stopping by at all hours, trying to sneak a peek? Most of todays publicized apartments are linked to celebrities who lived there many years ago and are now relegated to NYC history. Questions about buying, selling, renting or investing? Please dont hesitate to contact me. Im available via phone or email any time. My best regards, Dan Bamberger Licensed Salesperson Citi Habitats 250 Park Ave South 5th Floor NY, NY 10003 Cell-917-903-7237 Office-212-685-7300 Fax- 917-262-7376 Sale Deal of the Month! Two Bedroom on Charles St + W4th St $599,000/550 sq feet Pre-war coop located on coveted Charles St. between West 4th and Bleecker in the West Village. Often referred to as the best block, its all about location, convenience, peace and quiet. This bright top floor two bedroom apartment has windows in every room. Charming pre-war details include whitewashed exposed brick, solid hard wood floors, crown moldings, and high ceilings. 82 Charles Street offers laundry, bike storage, and a newly appointed roof-deck with amazing open city views. Building allows gifting, guarantors and parents purchasing for children. forward to a friend Copyright 2012 Dan Bamberger, All rights reserved. unsubscribe from this list | update subscription preferences '
