Where the party never stops
http://eepurl.com/wtdV5
03/08/2013
http://gallery.mailchimp.com/f832646624bdbf8d1d0cd3146/images/102E22ndUnit3C_print_1.jpg
 What really matters: Lifestyle. Lucky for us, New Yorkers tend to work longer hours than the rest of the country. When youre spending much of your time working, social outlets need to be easy-access -- as in,in your own building --because when theyre not, life in NYC can feel pretty lonely! Hence, when considering an apartment purchase, one of the most common questions asked tends to be: What kind of people live in this building? Its completely understandable; after all, choosing where you live is one of the most important decisions youll ever make, especially if you live in NYC! But heres the rub: For real estate professionals, answering questions about who lives in a building, or what kind of people live in a building, is a big no-no its actually against housing law. That means that luck plays a major role as to whom you end up living next to. Your neighbor could end up being your best friend, your spouse or your worst enemy! But for some NYC buildings, the who isnt such a mystery. Remember back in junior high when all of the cool kids used to hang out together? Today, theyre all grown up and apparently, theyve all moved into the same co-ops on the Upper East Side! (720 Park Ave) (The Dakota) On the other hand, you have the hip, cool condominiums. These so-called lifestyle buildings clubby buildings have started quite a trend: the amenity-rich property that cater to the young and cool. From landscaped roofs complete with pools and tennis courts, to gorgeous, art-saturated lobbies that are designed to enhance social networking. Here are three of Manhattans most coolest condos: The A Building, 425 E. 13thStreet Known for its raging parties, an apartment with a built-in stainless steel helical slide connected two penthouses, and an ultra-swanky rooftop pool, there arent many buildings quite like the A Building. Located between 1stAvenue and Avenue A, this eight-story, 84-condo complex is more like a summer beach share, complete with weekend pool parties, beach cabanas and lots and lots of networking, of both the social and professional nature. Populated with Wall Street upstarts, self-employed creative types, moneyed hipsters and the occasional pro-poker player, the A Building has a playful, South Beach vibe. However, according to the NY Daily News, the buildings unofficial motto could very well be work hard, play hard. Perhaps theres a lot of networking going on at the A Buildings regular pool parties and happy hour Flip Cup games. The Atelier, 635 West 42ndStreet Then theres the Atelier. On the other side of town, this light-filled tower offers amazing views of the Hudson, as well as the chance to rub shoulders with celebrities. Luminaries of stage and screen including Lindsay Lohan Nick Lachey and Jeremy Piven have all called the Atelier home at some point. Like the A Building, the Atelier is all about amenities that complement a thriving social scene. Residents can enjoy the hip country club vibe at the buildings indoor and rooftop pools and landscaped sun deck, or just hang out on the leather couches in the white marble lobby and enjoy the latest art show. Oh, and dont forget the driving range, private tennis courts, and the grill area with vegetarian, kosher and regular grills. Downtown -- 15 Broad Street Down in the financial district, Downtown at 15 Broad has become the go-to building for couples, single professionals and young families. Again, its all about the amenities, which read like the checklist from a cruise ship: Swimming pool with chandelier Ballet and yoga studio Private screening room Squash court Hermes in the lobby Plus, Downtown is zoned for one of the best schools in town PS 234. But that all pales in comparison to the buildings massive, indoor-outdoor rooftop deck, complete with a reflection pool, fireplace and massive planters. Weekly wine nights all drinks on the buildings dime and resident restaurateur tastings set the backdrop for the buildings thriving social scene. So heres the good news. While these three buildings may be a bit hard to break into, theyve set an amenity-rich and social networking-focused trend thats showing up in other buildings. And, with much of todays new development focusing on condominium projects, rather than co-ops, the demographics have been changing, along with the ease of entry. Now, much of that club-like vibe can simply be purchased without the need for fame or that certain image. When youre choosing a building to live in, its important to make a good match for your lifestyle. But each building has its own culture and identity -- and that can be difficult to identify from the outside. Thats why, when youre buying or selling an apartment, its essential to work with an agent that understands the lifestyle and culture of the building and can communicate, market and sell appropriately. For instance, an agent who specializes in Park Avenue co-ops may be less-equipped to sell in the East Villages A Building, and vice-versa. But rest assured: Whether youre seeking art and upscale retailers in the lobby, the perfect setting for social networking, or an ongoing frat party, youre sure to find it somewhere in Manhattan. Questions about buying, selling, renting or investing? Please dont hesitate to contact me. Im available via phone or email any time. My best regards, Dan Bamberger Citi Habitats 250 Park Ave South NY, NY 10003 Cell-917-903-7237 Office-212-685-7300 Fax- 917-262-7376 Sale Deal of the Month! 102 E. 22 # 3C One bed/One bath $685,000 Elegant and immaculate one-bedroom in Gramercy/Flatiron. VERY spacious, completely GUT renovated prewar apartment in 102 east 22nd street is bright, airy and beautifully designed. Stunning details like BEAMED ceilings, hardwood floors and a huge working WOOD-BURNING fireplace add warmth, and are complemented by sleek modern features such as an all-new state-of-the-art windowed kitchen equipped with gorgeous cherry cabinets, maintenance-free Corian countertops, and stainless steel appliances that include a Miele cooking range, microwave/convection combo oven and dishwasher. The bedroom is extremely large, comfortable and light-filled; plus theres lots of closet space for storage, and a renovated windowed bath. Built in 1928, 102 East 22nd Street is located on one of Gramercys most desirable blocks between Park and Lexington near Gramercy Park, and many wonderful neighborhood eateries and attractions. This well-maintained Art Deco elevator building features a live-in super, central laundry, private storage and bike storage. Residents also enjoy a 20% dinner discount at Novita Restaurant right next door. Pets, pied a terres and subletting are allowed forward to a friend Copyright 2013 Dan Bamberger, All rights reserved. unsubscribe from this list | update subscription preferences '
